how i spend my day as a digital marketer
getting your work done isn't enough if
you want to succeed as a digital
marketer what makes the life of digital
marketer complicated is algorithms from
facebook to google to instagram to even
linkedin pretty much all platforms have
their own algorithm and the issue isn't
that they have an algorithm it's more so
that they continually change their
algorithm in 2020 google made more than
4 500 algorithm updates that's roughly
12 updates a day now as time goes on
google makes even more algorithm updates
so this year you can expect way more
than that now you don't have to keep up
with each and every single algorithm
change but you have to keep up with the
major ones either way it's a lot of work
but as a digital marketer you can't
spend all your time focusing just on
algorithm changes there's much more to
do and here's how i spend my days 5 am i
get up i'm an early riser mainly because
my kids wake up early and they cry so
you got to pick them up feed them their
milk i love it to death and then i brush
my teeth and then from there i work out
and i shower i typically get done with
all this by 6 30 am at the latest and if
you're wondering how my workouts are
high intensity interval training in
which i can get them done within 15
minutes 30 minutes at the latest you can
find them on youtube all day long for
free i usually follow a guy named joe
the body coach and as i mentioned the
lessons are usually just 15 to 20
minutes and they don't require equipment
or weights and when i'm traveling i can
do them too 6 30 a.m to 7 30 a.m this is
when i answer emails even though i go to
sleep with my inbox checked i wake up
with a lot of emails keep in mind my
company has over 700 employees and 900
plus clients so i got to answer those
emails 7 30 to 8 am i read typically i
read what's happening in the economy or
even in the market industry from google
stock price to algorithm update i try to
stay in touch with anything happening
with the marketing industry as well as
the platforms that are publicly traded
8 am to 10 am phone calls i spend a lot
of my day on phone calls in the mornings
i have two hours blocked off for phone
calls i try not to make them long i
usually try to get most my calls down to
15 minutes not 30 minutes not one hour
15 minutes sometimes i drag onto 30
minutes i hate scheduling hour calls
because they tend to be inefficient for
most things 10 a.m to 11 a.m i look at
people's marketing seriously i block off
an hour in my day to study other
people's marketing and not just people
in my industry i literally look at sites
and all verticals and that way i can see
what they're doing what's working and
learn from them you can use tools from
uber says to similar web to give you
this data this gives me ideas on what
people are doing and maybe i can take
some of those approaches and tactics and
apply it to my industry
11am to noon more calls as i mentioned i
talk on the phone a lot and when i say a
lot i really do mean a lot most my calls
are about marketing growth experiments
and ways we can grow even our own
business noon to 1pm this is my first
meal of the day they say breakfast is
the most important meal of the day but i
do intermittent fasting and this helps
give me more energy i'm not saying you
should do it or you shouldn't it's just
how my body operates i also don't really
eat much sugar and i don't drink coffee
i also try to do meetings during lunch
so i can kill two birds with one stone
if i don't have a meeting i'm usually
able to finish up my lunch in 15 minutes
1 pm to 2 30 i create content whether
it's for social media or videos or even
blog posts or just thinking about ideas
i create time for content for example i
write my own youtube scripts even if
only takes a few hours to film 16 videos
each month it takes me roughly 8 hours
to write out my scripts and come up with
ideas 2 30 to 3 p.m i play with my kids
the beauty of working from home is you
can set your own schedule the way i
clear my mind and relax is by having fun
and playing with my kids it's not for
the longest time but i make every moment
count
and when i'm with them i'm playing with
them 100 of time paying attention to
them 100 of the time i don't have my
phone i'm not distracted i make my time
count
p.m to 5 p.m more calls it's rare that
i'm on the phone for less than four
hours a day at least for one hour of my
calls i talk to other marketers and
here's why i can see what they're doing
what they're testing out what's working
for them
what's happening in their personal lives
as well because some of these people are
friends and i tend to talk to other
marketers in the later part of my day
because they have more free time because
they're not busy cranking and working on
their business or working at their job
5 pm to 6 pm i read from industry
websites to news websites like bbc i
like to know what's happening in the
marketing industry as well as what's
happening in the world keep in mind the
world affects marketing for example we
saw this in 2020 kovid shut down a lot
of factories and it caused e-commerce to
boom
that's an example of what happens in the
world can affect marketing
6 pm to 6 30
i eat dinner with my family i don't do
this every single day but i do try to
eat dinner with my wife and kids
whenever possible majority of the time i
do it
i want to keep my family as a unit and i
think it's very important so that when
my kids grow up they understand the
value of family time and spending with
each other 6 30 to 7 i help my wife put
the kids to bed i play with them a bit
read some books i have to convince them
to go to bed or take a shower it's
always a fun experiment negotiating with
little kids 7 pm to 7 30 spend some time
talking to my wife my wife is super easy
going all she asks for me is 10 minutes
of undivided attention a day i feel
that's not giving her much so i give her
at least 30 minutes and of course i talk
to her throughout the day because she's
home so in theory i spend more than 30
minutes with my wife and my kids each
and every single day but i do like to
block up some time just for my wife so
she can tell me what's happening in the
day what's happening with the kids
anything i should know about any help
she may need from me any things that we
have to plan for the future
and 7 30 to 8 30
researching my brain is a bit weird i
tend to want to learn about things like
space history new technologies or even
other businesses for some reason i can't
turn my mind off when it comes to
working or learning so i just lean into
it and give my mind what i want
8 30 and beyond i check emails get ready
for bed
one note is i actually check my emails
each hour
when i'm doing other tasks but i want to
make sure my inbox is fully clean so
that way before i go to sleep i don't
wake up with too many emails or else
i'll be in the morning responding to 500
or a thousand emails so that's how my
day is a digital marketer your day may
be different and that's okay you got to
figure out what's right for you don't
take my schedule and think that's the
only way to be a digital marketer adapt
it to your life figure out what you want
to do say take some things that you like
from my schedule and put into yours and
take some things that you don't like in
my schedule and don't add it to your
ears
i hope that helps you if you have any
questions leave a comment below i hope
you enjoyed this video thank you for
watching